# PID Controller

The task of this project was to drive a car through a race track, only knowing the cross track error (meaning the lateral deviation of the car with respect to the track's center line). The PID controller is a very simple type of controller, the implementation is straight forward. The more interesting part is the parameter tuning, which can be a bit tricky. I tried to use the Twiddle algorithm, but it actually expects that you can test a scenario by yourself to see the "new" output with changed parameters. But for this project, I only can use the data provided by the simulator, I can't tell him to replay i.e. the last action or something like this. Thus I decided to tune the parameters manually. The car stays on the track with these parameters, but it drives a bit jerky, especially in sharp curves. I tried to lower P and increase I for a more smooth driving. But the integral part was either to slow or it became too dominating. I think the main problem is that for sharp curves, the cross track error suddenly changes dramtically, thus a high P is required to be able to react fast to it and the integral part would not be able to catch up.

I also implemented a simple P controller for the throttle (depending on speed and steering angle), such that the speed gets lowered a little bit in sharp curves. This makes it easier for the steering controller to drive through them. "Output.mp4" shows a short sample of the car driving on the track. Unfortunately, the quality is rather poor and the recording speed didn't seem to be constant. Nevertheless, the working controller can be observed. The following controller values have been used for steering: **P: 0.13, I: 0.001, D: 2.4**.
